#THEME BACKGROUND:

In addition to size and scope, OT networks involve myriad types of devices connecting to
their networks. Signature-based cybersecurity solutions are unlikely to deliver the requisite performance
to detect new attack vectors (zero-day exploits). Artificial Intelligence can help discover devices and
hidden patterns while processing large amounts of data. Machine Learning can help monitor incoming and
outgoing traffic for any deviations in behaviour in the OT ecosystem. If a threat or anomaly is
detected, alarms are to be sent to security admins warning them about the suspicious traffic.
AI and ML can be used to build lightweight endpoint detection technologies. This can be an indispensable
solution, especially in situations where OT devices lack the processing power and need behavior-based
detection capabilities that aren't as resource intensive.

Problem Statement Build AI based tool to help discover devices and hidden patterns while processing
large amounts of real-time pipeline operational data (Industrial protocols such as DNP 3.0, Modbus, IEC 101).
The tool should help in monitoring incoming and outgoing traffic for any deviations in behaviour in the OT ecosystem.
If threat or anomaly is detected, alarms should be sent to security admin warning them about the
suspicious traffic. The tool should also suggest corrective actions/steps to be taken in order to
thwart or minimize the attacks intensity and damage to the OT systems.
Further, the tool should have in-built dashboard facility to display logs/reports to help the
admin in carrying out diagnosis.

protocal is a language in which computer systems talk with each other.
types of protocols given to us -> modbus, IEC101,DNP3

we are using modbus prot as its a newer protocal compared to DNP3 and its easier to use compared to DNP3

so where are these protocols used in the industry?
Anywhere where we have to read and write data to and from the devices to control and monitor
their activities

for ex: an industrial system using pumps to control water level in their plant, use different sensors to
monitor the level of water so in this case the water pump and the sensor can be connected
to systems different systems which are connected to a comman center(say Master station). The master station controls the
water pump and the sensor readings, these i/o signals are sent on protocols like modbus, IEC101, DNP3.

Master stations are a key component in OT system. As Master stations are able to pull information from other devicies and put
it on a screen for managing Operations.


danda reeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee

